---
description: This page compares Anoma's resource model with the account and UTXO model.
---

# Model Comparison

The advantages of the **resource model** are best understood by comparison with other widely used state models: the **account model** and the **UTXO model**.

<table><thead><tr><th width="190"></th><th>Account Model</th><th>UTXO Model</th><th>Resource Model</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>State Representation</td><td>Explict</td><td>Implicit</td><td>Implicit</td></tr><tr><td>State Scope</td><td>Global, unified across all accounts</td><td>Local, fragmented among UTXOs</td><td>Local, fragmented among resources</td></tr><tr><td>State Updates</td><td>Direct modification of global state</td><td>Consumption &#x26; creation of UTXOs</td><td>Consumption &#x26; creation of resources</td></tr><tr><td>Data Lookup</td><td>Direct lookup in the account.</td><td>Aggregation of UTXOs (e.g., by owner).</td><td>Aggregation of  resources (e.g., by kind or owner)</td></tr><tr><td>Logic Predicates</td><td>Arbitrary logic per account.</td><td>The same logic for each UTXO.</td><td>Arbitrary logic per resource.</td></tr><tr><td>Privacy</td><td>Transparent</td><td>Transparent, shielded</td><td>Selective information flow control: Transparent, shielded, private</td></tr><tr><td>Apps</td><td>General applications</td><td>Limited applications (e.g., payments)</td><td>General application &#x26; intents</td></tr><tr><td>App Distribution</td><td>Account deployment to an address to each chain.</td><td>Consumption &#x26; creation of UTXOs.</td><td>Consumption &#x26; creation of resources.</td></tr><tr><td>Used by</td><td>Ethereum, Solana, Cosmos, Polkadot</td><td>Bitcoin, Zcash</td><td>Anoma</td></tr></tbody></table>

<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th><th data-hidden data-card-cover data-type="files"></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>A transaction updating the state in a smart contract in the account model.</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="../../.gitbook/assets/account-model.png">account-model.png</a></td></tr><tr><td>A transaction consuming and creating UTXOs in the UTXO model.</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="../../.gitbook/assets/utxo-model.png">utxo-model.png</a></td></tr><tr><td>A transaction consuming and creating different resources of different kind in the resource model.</td><td></td><td></td><td><a href="../../.gitbook/assets/resource-model.png">resource-model.png</a></td></tr></tbody></table>

